# RenameCHGenomicsFilename

- - -
### 1. Decription
RenameCHGenomicsFilename is designed for rename fastq.gz files generated by CloudHealth Genomics.

The rules of fastq.gz files :
`[runID]_[machineId][flowcellID]_[CHGID]-[LibName]-[SampleName]-[Barcode]_[LaneId]_[ReadNum].fastq.gz`

It looks like this: S0001_01A_CHG000000-LIBNAME-SAMPLENAME-CCGGTTAA_L008_R2.fastq.gz

Some custumors do not want to get the fastq file in this style names. Some donot want the `CHGID` appears in the names, or `LibName`,`SampleName`,`Barcode`,`LaneId`.

So `RenameCHGenomicsFilename` is created.`RenameCHGenomicsFilename` is a `golang` based app.

- - -

### 2. Usage
`RenameCHGenomicsFilename` can be run in both windows/linux OS, or anyother platforms which `golang` support.
Help Information for `RenameCHGenomicsFilename`:
```bash
RenameCHGenomicsFilename
A fastq.gz renamer from Cloudhealth Genomics, avaliable command : 
        (1)rename;
        (2)rebuilddir;
Please use help for details

Author: Qinghui Li
Email: liqh@cloudhealth99.com
Company: CloudHealth Genomics

Usage:
  RenameCHGenomicsFilename [flags]
  RenameCHGenomicsFilename [command]

Available Commands:
  help        Help about any command
  rebuild     re-build the structure of the delivering fastq files
  rename      rename is used for rename fastq file(s) to user specified stype
  version     Print the version number of RenameCHGenomicsFilename

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for RenameCHGenomicsFilename

Use "RenameCHGenomicsFilename [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```language
```

NOTICE: all the command can by in short or long parameters,like `-h` or `--help`.


#### 2.1 rename module
Help information for `rename` module,by typing `RenameCHGenomicsFilename rename -h`
```bash
rename is used for rename fastq file(s) to user specified stype, avaliable Parameters: 
        (1)-marker :the region you want to remove from the samplenames[default:"4"]
                0: remove RunId,flowcellID,CHGID,Barcode
                1: remove CHGID
                2: remove LibName
                3: remove SampleName
                4: remove Barcode
                5: remove LaneId
                12: remove CHGID & LibName
                14: remove CHGID & Barcode
                124: remove CHGID & LibName & Barcode
        (2)-dir :directory of the fastq files. eg: /online/projects/C150001-P001 [default:"./",means current dir,for linux OS]
        Any problem please contact  Qinghui Li  via liqh@cloudhealth99.com

Usage:
  RenameCHGenomicsFilename rename [flags]

Flags:
  -d, --dir string   specify a (relative/abs) path to fastq files (default "./")
  -h, --help         help for rename
  -m, --marker int   specify a marker to remove from filename[0/1/2/3/4/5/12/14/124]:chg id/original lib name/original samplename/barcode/lane id/CHGID & LibName/CHGID & Barcode/CHGID & LibName & Barcode (default 4)
```

#### 2.2 rebuild module
Help information for `rename` module,by typing `RenameCHGenomicsFilename rebuild -h`
```bash
re-build the structure of the delivering fastq files，including fq files,md5 files, dir name, et.al.

Usage:
  RenameCHGenomicsFilename rebuild [flags]

Flags:
  -c, --customerid string   customer id , determined the style of fastq files structure. 
                Please input the correct customerid, like: C150001,C150003
  -d, --dir string          specify a (relative/abs) path to projectdir,like C150003-P999
  -h, --help                help for rebuild
  -p, --projectid string    projectid of the current delieverying (default "all")
```



### 3. Download
<pre><code>git clone https://github.com/snailQH/RenameCHGenomicsFilename.git
cd RenameCHGenomicsFilename
chmod 777 RenameCHGenomicsFilename
</code></pre>


### 4. What's New
- 20170920 update the program with a new CLI `cobra` and update a new function `rebuild` ,which aims to rebuild the structure of fastq files into the style defined by custumers-self.


### 5. How ro run
#### 1. run the app from source code:
You need to install golang before run from the source code.
<pre><code>go run main.go rename -d /online/projects/C170001-P001 -m 5 #remove the LaneId from filename[/online/projects/C170001-P001]
</code></pre>

#### 2. run the app in linux os:
`rename`:
<pre><code>./RenameCHGenomicsFilename rename -d /online/projects/C170001-P001 -m 5 //remove the LaneId from filename[/online/projects/C170001-P001]
</code></pre>

`rebuild`:
<pre><code>./RenameCHGenomicsFilename rebuild -d /online/projects/C170001-P001 -p C170001-P001 -c C170001 //rebuild all the fastq files according to the style provided by customer C170001
</code></pre>


#### 3. run the app in windows os:
<pre><code>RenameCHGenomicsFilename.exe rename -d D:\\C170001-P001 -m 5 //remove the LaneId from filename[D:\\C170001-P001]
</code></pre>


Warning: Run the `RenameCHGenomicsFilename rename` can rename all the `*fastq.gz` files who have he same name pattern with the CHG `*fastq.gz` files which may affect the irrelevant files.

